My findings:

Pin 7 is normally at 0V, pulled low via internal 280k resistor.

Upon local alarm, pin 7 is driven high to aprox 8-8.5V constant current.

Connecting pin 7 to 9V supply results in a "remote" alarm situation and sets off the sounder. Datasheet says protection for higher voltage is provided (section 3.5).

--------------------------


Calculations:
9V battery readings (new)
9.36V Duracell
9.64V Varta
No volt drop when connected to smoke alarm.
Allow for 10V max to analogue in.

(220K+ R1)/100K voltage divider
So R1 needs to be 900-220 = 680K
---------------------------------


Ideas:

Monitoring only:
Connect pin 7 IO to Arduino data pin via voltage divider.

Interconnect alarms via MQTT:
One alarm activation sends signal to MQTT broker. Node red configured to pass signal onto all other devices. Each Arduino has output pin to npn transistor, CE connected to 9V and pin 7. i.e. shorting IO pin 7 to 9V.

Low battery monitoring:
Voltage divider from 0V & 9V which goes to analogue pin of Arduino, sends MQTT message when lower than x volts.


----------------------------

Datasheet info:


RE46C165/6/7/8
PDIP, SOIC Symbol Function
1 C1 High Gain Capacitor Pin
2 C2 Normal Gain Capacitor Pin
3 DETECT Photo Diode Input
4 STROBE Strobed Detection Negative Supply
5 VDD Positive Power Supply
6 IRED Infrared Emitting Diode Pin
7 IO Interconnect Pin
8 HB Horn Brass, Inverted Output
9 HS Horn Silver Output
10 FEED Horn Feedback Pin
11 LED LED Driver Pin
12 COSC Oscillator Capacitor Input
13 ROSC Oscillator Resistor Drive Low
14 VSS Negative Power Supply
15 VSEN Hush Timer Sensitivity Pin
16 TEST Test Pin


2.6 Interconnect Pin (I/O)
This bidirectional pin provides the capability to
interconnect many detectors in a single system. This
pin has an internal pull-down device.

3.5 Interconnect
The bidirectional I/O pin allows the interconnection of
multiple detectors. In a local alarm condition, this pin is
driven high immediately through a constant current
source. Shorting this output to ground will not cause
excessive current. The I/O is ignored as an input during
a local alarm.
The I/O pin has a 280k nominal pull-down resistor, so
the pin may be left unconnected.
The I/O pin also has an NMOS discharge device that is
active for 1 second after the conclusion of any type of
local alarm. This device helps to quickly discharge any
capacitance associated with the interconnect line.
If a remote active high signal is detected, the device
goes into remote alarm and the horn will be active.
Internal protection circuitry allows for the signaling unit
to have a higher supply voltage than the signaled unit,
without excessive current draw.
The interconnect input has a digital filter that ensures
filtering out pulses of up to 300 ms. Filter pulses will be
ignored and not affect internal timing of the part. This
allows for interconnection to other types of alarms
(carbon monoxide for example) that may have a pulsed
interconnect signal.
The remote alarm delay (370 ms to 1.27s) specifies the
time from the interconnect going active to sounding the
piezo horn alarm.

